
Across Lite Puzzle Player

This app will allow crossword puzzles in the Across Lite format to be played
on the Panic Playdate.  Across Lite is a standard format for downloadable
crossword puzzles used by many media organizations.  Some access to these
puzzles is behind a paywall but a number of them are freely available for
download.  A site that I have found useful for downloading these puzzles
is:

https://crosswordfiend.com/download/

The Crossword app has two main screens.  1) the puzzle selection screen and
2) The puzzle play screen.  Following are the button options for each:

Puzzle Selection Screen

Up/Down     Select puzzle
Left        Return to parent folder (if exists)
Right       Open the last puzzle worked if it exists
A           Open puzzle
B           Delete puzzle (press 3 times to delete)

Puzzle Play Screen

D-Pad       Used to select current letter cell
A           Selects the next letter
B+A         Selects the previous letter (hold B and press A)
B+Left      Select the letter 10 places previous
B+Right     Advances the current letter by 10 places
B+Up        Find previous blank cell
B+Down      Find next blank cell
B           Change word selection from across to down and vice versa
Crank       The crank may be used for letter selection.  Turn clockwise for
            next letter(s) and counter-clockwise for previous.

On the Puzzle Play Screen there are menu options for checking and removing errors.
Also an "exit puzzle" option will return to the Puzzle Selection Screen.  The
current state of the puzzle is saved when the Play screen is exited and is
restored on reentry to that puzzle.

Crossword comes with 2 puzzles built into the app.  These are as follows and since
they are part of the executable they cannot be deleted.

Mostly Musical Mini 23.puz
1481WhyBeCross.puz

Puzzle files that you download must be placed in the puzzle directory of the
Crossword app.  Once the Playdate is connected to your PC/Mac if it does not appear
as a drive then on the Playdate system menu select the following:

settings -> System -> Reboot to Data Disk

Once connected your .puz files should be placed in the following folder:

Data -> com.bwit.crossword -> puzzles

If the game was installed from the play.date web site this folder may be named:

Data -> user.xxxx.com.bwit.crossword -> puzzles

Note that you can create sub folders to organize your puzzles if you so desire.  The
puzzle selection screen will allow the hierarchy to be traversed to select the puzzle
you wish to play.  Creating subfolders is not required.

Panic's instructions for sideloading games can be found here:

https://help.play.date/games/sideloading/

This app will only work with valid Across Lite puzzle files.  These files contain
internal checksums used to validate the integrity of the file.  Files with bad checksums
will refuse to open.

Playing background music
Version 1.60 and higher support playing background music in the puzzle play screen.
To enable this feature place one or more MP3 files in the following folder:

Data -> com.bwit.crossword -> music

If MP3 files exist in this folder one will randomly be selected each time you enter
a puzzle and will play in the background.

Background music may be toggled on/off in the options menu.  This setting will be saved
and remain in effect until changed.

A nice selection of relaxing music is available at:
https://pixabay.com/music/search/mood/relaxing/

Downloading puzzles from the Internet
Version 1.80 introduces the ability to download puzzle files via an Internet connection.  This action
is invoked via the system menu 'download puz' from the puzzle list screen.  After a download the
results can be viewed via the 'download log' menu item if desired.

The puzzles downloaded are controlled via a configuration file stored in the apps data directory.  This
is a JSON file named 'config.json' and will be created if it doesn't exist.  The default configuration
sets up downloads for the following free puzzle sites:
        Wall Street Journal
        Universal Daily Crossword
        Universal Sunday Crossword
        The Washington Post
        Jonesin' by Matt Jones

The configuration file may be editied to enable/disable any of the existing download sites or add new ones.
This file is a JSON file which represents an array of tables where each array entry is a single download
site.  The format of each download site consists of the following entries:

        active:         If true the site will be processed otherwise it is ignored.
        fileName:       The filename the puzzle will be stored under.
        url:            The URL for the puzzle download site.
        folder:         The folder these puzzles will be stored in.  The puzzles stored
                        in the folder will be segregated by date.  For example, if the
                        folder name is 'mypuz' an entry will be stored under this path
                        if downloaded on April 20, 2025.
                                mypuz/2025/04
        dayOfWeek:      An array of seven boolean entries indicating the days of the week
                        when the puzzle is available for download.  The first entry represents
                        Monday.
        headers:        A string containing any HTTP headers that should be attached to the
                        GET request for the puzzle data.  This string is of the format:
                                hdr1: value1^hdr2: value2^hdr3: value3
                        Each header is seperated by a caret (^) delimiter.  Headers are
                        optional and can be omitted unless required by the site being used.

The fileName and url entries may contain symbolic parameters that will be replaced at runtime with
selected date values.  The paramteres currently available are:

        @year@          The 4 digit year
        @year2@         The 2 digit year
        @month@         The 2 digit month
        @day@           The 2 digit day of the month
        @hour@          The 2 digit hour of the day
        @minute@        The 2 digit minute of the hour
        @second@        The 2 digit second of the minute
        @weekday@       A single digit indicating the day of the week.  1 = Monday

Following is an example entry for the Wall Street Journal site:

	 {
		"active":true,
		"dayOfWeek": [
			true,
			true,
			true,
			true,
			true,
			true,
			false
		],
		"fileName":"wsj@year2@@month@@day@.puz",
		"folder":"download/wsj",
		"url":"https://herbach.dnsalias.com/wsj/wsj@year2@@month@@day@.puz"
	}

Selecting a puzzle download displays a calendar where the date of the download can be selected.  Initially
the current date is selected but this can be changed using right/left on the D-Pad.  The Up/Down buttons
will move to the previous/next month.
When the appropiate date is selected, press the A button to initiate the download or the B button to exit
without downloading.

The calendar generation code being used is a slightly modified version of a release by Guilherme Brisson.
        https://github.com/guiBrisson/lua-calendar
Following is the license for this code.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
MIT License

Copyright (c) 2025 Guilherme Brisson

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Please feel free to let me know if you encounter errors, uncover bugs, or have suggestions.

Bob Withers
bwit@pobox.com

ChangeLog
v1.00 - first public release
v1.01 - implemented crank support for letter selection.
v1.02 - first pass at a file browser for puzzle selection screen.
v1.03 - tweaked crank acceleration
v1.04 - fixed bug in draw screen for puzzles that are not square
v1.05 - fixed above bug in check errors and clear errors
v1.10 - public release of fixes so far
v1.11 - added B+Left/Right to advance letter to previous or next by 10
v1.12 - correct findNextWord and findPrevWord for down words - sometimes skipped words
v1.13 - implement B+Down/Up to find next/previous blank cell
v1.20 - public release of fixes so far
v1.21 - indicate completed puzzles on puzzle selection screen
v1.22 - add word length to clues
        corrected bug determining if word will fit on screen
        display number of errors removed
        puzzle selection screen enhanced to support Left/Right (parent/last puzzle)
V1.30 - public release
v1.31 - pause clue scroll timer when checking or removing errors
        do not reset board origin after clearing errors
v1.32 - select current cell after removing errors
v1.33 - added support for REBUS marked section - circle marked cells (experimental)
        (to disable a menu option is available)
v1.34 - add 'show letter' menu option to fill in the current cell
v1.40 - public release
v1.41 - enable file checksum validation but just display message, allow file to load
v1.42 - display version on puzzle selection screen
v1.43 - catch attempt to delete parent folder
v1.44 - reduce cell size from 28 to 26 to get more of the puzzle on screen
        (this eliminates horizonal scrolling on 15x15 puzzles)
v1.45 - increase font size used for clues and slightly slow scroll for long clues
v1.50 - public release
v1.51 - tweak clue scroll to allow tail end of message to be more easily read
        error scrolling screen that did not always calculate top pos correctly
v1.52 - correct error on horizonal scrolling for puzzles > 15 cells wide
v1.53 - added show word option to play menu
v1.54 - added support for background music in the puzzle play screen
v1.60 - public release
v1.61 - added code to load rebus GRBS and RTBL entries if present.  these are not
        handled now but are stored in puzzle storage for future use
v1.62 - document REBUS section in the load puzzle routines
        process RTBL entries and store in puzzle storage for future enhancement
v1.63 - do not save empty grid if no entries for puzzle
v1.64 - crank support added for puzzle lists by Macoy Madson
        crank enhancement to letter selection for puzzles by Macoy Madson
v1.70 - public release
v1.80 - publc release supporting puzzle file downloads
v1.90 - public release with ability to select puzzle download date
